# Debouncing

## Overview

We can also make use of the `useEffect` hook to implement debouncing within a component. As a review, debouncing is a technique that we can use to cut down on expensive operations that are triggered by an event that triggers very often when the user interacts with our webpage (like a keystroke or a mouse movement)

In this case, we have a component that will search for TV Shows from the TVMaze api as a user types into the search input. 

We trigger a call to the API whenever the debounced search term changes:

```jsx
// send fetch request after debounced term is updated
useEffect(() => {
  fetch(`https://api.tvmaze.com/search/shows?q=${encodeURI(debouncedSearchTerm)}`)
    .then(res => res.json())
    .then(results => {
      setSearchResults(results.map(data => data.show))
    })
}, [debouncedSearchTerm])
```

And we're updating the debounced search term at a delay:

```jsx
// whenever search input text is update, update the debounced term on a timeout
useEffect(() => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    setDebouncedSearchTerm(searchInputText);
  }, 300)
}, [searchInputText])
```

But, if you try typing in the input currently, you can see that there is a bunch of flicker as we're typing. We currently have the delay, but we still have a bunch of flicker as the images render in the search results. We can also see if we check the network tab that we're still getting a fetch request for every keystroke updating the input, they're just happening slightly after the change to the input occurs. 

## Exercise

To fix this problem, we're going to need to return a cleanup function from the `useEffect` that is triggering the timeout to updated the debounced search term. The purpose of this cleanup function is to cancel the previous timeout so that we're only waiting on a single update to the debounced search term at a time. If the user types again within 300 milliseconds, the previously scheduled update to state will be canceled and then we'll schedule a new one.